# Understanding the .NET Platform


### **1. Explain what the .NET platform is and its primary purpose.**

- The .NET is a framework for languages like c#, f# and visual basics. 
- A Framework provides an environment to run programming languages. 
- For an analogy, Framework is an airport and languages are the airplanes in that airport.
- ` `In .NET all programming languages share the same Common language Runtime for all languages like F#, and visual basics. 
- It Minimizes the software deployment versioning conflicts
- It Maximizes the developer experience to work in cross platform development like web based and windows-based applications.

### **2. What are the key components of the .NET platform?** 

- Common Language Runtime 
- Common Intermediate Language
- Compiler – JIT (Just in Time Compiler)
- App Stacks - (WPF, ASP.NET, Windows Forms)

### **3. Differentiate between the Common Language Runtime (CLR) and the Common Type System (CTS) in .NET.**

**Common Language Runtime**

- It is a runtime environment that manages the execution of languages under .NET framework.
- It provides services like Security, Exception handling, JIT, Memory management.
- Cross language integration – Objects in different languages can interact with each other.
- The Metadata of the code is carried out and recorded in a CLRPE (Common language runtime portable executable file) by this CLR

**Common Type System**

- Common type system is a subsystem of CLR which defines how the types are created managed and stored in CLR
- The rules specified by the CTS is known as CLS, Common language specifications 
- In .NET it supports classes, structs, Enums, interfaces and delegates 
- It manages type accessibility like which can access the public and assembly.
- It supports cross-language integration.

### **4. What is the role of the Global Assembly Cache (GAC) in .NET?**

- Assembly is the smallest unit of deployment of a .NET application which can be direct link language or Executable file. 
- The assemblies can be in two types, private or publicly shared. The publicly shared or stored assembly is called Global Assembly cache
- It stores machine wide cross platform assemblies of different languages.
- It avoids the conflicts created while the assemblies are being created. 
- It ensures that all the assemblies are untampered. 
- The Five properties such as, Name, Key, version, culture and architecture. 
- **Reasons to have GAC**		
1) Publicly Shared Location
1) Side-by-side versioning
1) Additional search location
1) File security

### **5. Explain the difference between value types and reference types in C#.**

**Value Types**

- Value types, stores as values. It is stored as a stack. It may or may not be manipulated after copying the value to a different variable.
- E.g. If a variable Price is stored and copied to another variable temp. If the temp is manipulated, the Price will not be affected

**Reference Type**

- Reference stores the value with reference that is stores as address of the variable or the instance of the class that is object. 
- It can be manipulated after copying to another variable as var. 
- E.g. If an object is stored in another variable. And manipulated, the specific property will also be manipulated because those two share the same instance. Also, in the case of using ref keyword which stores the address reference not as a value.

### **6. Describe the concept of garbage collection on .NET and its advantages.**

- Garbage Collection in .NET which automatically manages the memory allocation and won’t allocate memory for unused objects and variables.
- It minimizes memory leaks, maximize the performance and avoid errors due to unwanted memory
- It provides memory safety that it will not allocate memory for the object if it has already been allocated to different object.

### **7. What is the purpose of the Globalization and Localization features in .NET?**

**Globalization** 

Involves designing a world ready application which has localized features of all cultures. Such as providing different characters in a string, providing different format of Date Time. For example, united states will have format MM/DD/YYYY but most of the countries are not following in that way. Globalization makes sure that assumptions are made in all culture specific, and the app design does not get affected. 

**Localization**

Localization is the process of rewriting the application according to the local culture Basically, an application consists of two blocks which is user interface and functionality block which consists of localized features and formats such as error messages. 


### **8. Explain the role of the Common Intermediate Language (CIL) and Just-In-Time (JIT) compilation in the .NET framework.**

**Common Intermediate Language** is a set of instructions that are platform independent and are generated by the language specific compiler from the source-code. It includes the metadata of the code, CIL stored in a .NET assembly which is a compiled code library that can be executed by environment that supports .NET

**Just-In-Time Compilation** which converts the CIL into machine code that is specific to the machine JIT is part of CLR which is the virtual machine that manages the execution of .NET

It only runs on demand, which means it only compiles the methods required in the program's flow. It also optimizes the code in run-time based on the statistical analysis while the code is running


